Scrum is a framework for teams engaged in complex product development that centers around inspecting and adapting performance in cycles of continuous improvement.  The core of Scrum is the set of events, artifacts, and team roles that provide ample opportunity to reflect and adjust as the team responds to change and progresses towards excellence.

The Scrum Team itself is composed of members in three roles: Product Owner, Scrum Master, and Development Team.  The Product Owner is responsible for making sure the team is building a valuable product by maintaining the Product Backlog artifact.  The Product Backlog is an accessible, clear, and prioritized list of everything still needed for the product.  If the Product Owner is responsible for optimizing the business value of the Team's work, the Scrum Master is responsible for optimizing the value of the Team's interactions.  The Scrum Master serves as coach, facilitator, and general impediment remover for the Team.  The Development Team is a cross-functional group entrusted with delivering the product through another artifact, the Increment.  The Increment is a potentially releasable iteration of the product.  By releasable, we mean if the project were canceled after the delivery of an Increment, the product would still be usable and potentially provide value to a customer.

The cadence of Scrum is marked by Sprints, which are short timeboxes (often two weeks) during which the Team generates an Increment.  Sprint Planning starts each Sprint.  The Product Owner uses the prioritized product backlog to discuss the items to be completed during the Sprint with the Development Team members, who accept the amount of work they believe they can complete in the Sprint timebox into their Sprint Backlog (another Scrum artifact).  As the Sprint progresses, the Development Team holds Daily Scrums, 15-minute events during which team members coordinate to identify impediments to be addressed and work to be done in the next 24 hours.  At the end of the Sprint, the Development Team demonstrates to the Product Owner the Increment developed during the Sprint at the Sprint Review, and they collaborate together to adapt the Product Backlog and determine what would be most valuable to do next.  The Sprint Review is followed by the Sprint Retrospective, where the whole Scrum Team inspects itself and makes plans to adapt its processes and practices in the next Sprint.

This lightweight framework allows for substantial flexibility.  As teams use the above events to reflect and improve the way they work, they build their own principles and practices on top of Scrum to enable them to be productive, creative, and deliver value in their specific context.
